--------------------
USING RANGED WEAPONS
--------------------


To use ranged weapons you either have to equip a missile weapon along
with the correct missile type for that weapon, or you can equip a
throwable weapon in your missile slot.

Throwing
--------

Basically the game allows you to throw *anything*. But not all items
will cause as much damage as others do. Just equip the item you want
to throw in your missile equipment slot (G), and then just use the
throw command ('t') to target and throw it.

Some of the more effective throwable items include, throwing axes,
daggers throwing stars and so on. 


Shooting
-------- 

When you find a weapon which shows up under the label "Missile
Weapons" in your inventory window. You can use that item to shoot out
missiles. Of course, nothing limits you to use it only as a missile
weapon, you can as well use it in a close combat situations too and
hit with it.

But the best use for missile weapons is for shooting out correct
ammunition. The bows fire arrows, crossbows fire bolts and so on.

Note, if you for example have equipped a bow along with some
ridicilous ammunition like a cat corpse for example you still can
throw the corpse out but the bow will not be used.


Targetting
----------

When you activate the throw/shoot command ('t'), the game
automatically targets a first available monster/person which is
visible to you (it's not necessarily the nearest one). This targetted
creature might not be hostile so take care who you shoot at. 

You can select your own target by using the movement keys and when
you're ready to shoot at, press either 't' again or press SPACE to
shoot. To abort press 'q' or ESC.

To cycle automatically to next visible target, press 'n'.


Missile ammunition 
------------------ 

When you've equipped some missile ammunition, for example a pile of 10
throwing daggers, your missile slot will display only one dagger in
the slot at a time. But when you throw the dagger out you will
automatically equip a new throwing dagger from your purse, that is if
you have some daggers available in there. So, the game always tries to
equip similar items until you run out of that particular item type
(meaning a pile of items). 

When you run out of missiles of the type you first equipped you will
get a warning that you ran out of missiles.


Overview of available keys during missile combat
------------------------------------------------

t		initiate throw/shoot command

movement keys	move the targetting X
t (during	shoot a missile to the location of X
   targetting)  
n		cycle to the next visible target
SPACE           shoot a missile
q/ESC           Abort targetting
?/h		This help

This is the end of help.
